$Id: RELEASE,v 1.43 2004-10-17 15:31:38 debug Exp $

I'm currently working on post-0.2.1.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Release notes for mips64emul 0.2.X
==================================

Copyright (C) 2003-2004  Anders Gavare.


mips64emul is a MIPS machine emulator. The goals are to emulate MIPS-like
CPUs and enough surrounding hardware to be able to run unmodified
operating systems (such as NetBSD, Ultrix, Linux, FreeBSD, or OpenBSD) as
if they were running on a real machine, and to assist in experiments
involving MIPS-like code in general.

(MIPS is a registered trademark of MIPS Technologies. This project is not
affiliated with MIPS Technologies in any way whatsoever.) 

In its current form, it is possible to use the emulator to install an
operating system (NetBSD/pmax, Ultrix/RISC, or OpenBSD/pmax) onto an
emulated DECstation harddisk image; the "guest" operating system will run
as if it was running on a real physical machine. It is also possible to
run Sprite/DECstation this way.

A couple of other emulation modes exist (for SGI's MIPS-based machines,
Playstation 2, Cobalt, some ARC machines, etc) but these modes are more of
a curiosity, and should not be considered working yet.


--------------------------------------------------
TODO:  Feature additions 0.2.1 -> 0.2.X goes here.
--------------------------------------------------


This release has a number of known bugs, listed in the BUGS file, but feel
free to drop me an email regarding other bugs.


Files included in this release are:

  RELEASE            This file.

  README             Contains quick start instructions, for the impatient ones.

  LICENSE            Copyright message / license.

  HISTORY            Revision history/changelog.

  TODO               TODO notes.

  BUGS               A list of known bugs.

  src/, devices/,    Source code.
  and include/

  doc/               Documentation.

  tests/             Regression tests.

  experiments/       Experimental code (not needed by the emulator itself).

and a configure + Makefile.skel combination for configuring and building the
emulator.

Building the emulator should work on most Unix-like systems.  One system
which is specifically known to NOT work is Ultrix/RISC inside the
emulator; Ultrix chokes on the configure script and the default cc in
Ultrix doesn't work.


Regarding files in the include/ directory:  only a few of these are
written by me, the rest are from other sources (such as NetBSD).  The
license text says that "All advertising materials mentioning features or
use of this software" must display acknowledgements.  Even though I do NOT
feel I mention features or use of the header files (the "software") in any
advertising materials, I am still very greatful for the fact that these
people have made their files available for re-use, so I guess thanking
them like this is in order:

    This product includes software developed by the University of
    California, Berkeley and its contributors.

    This product includes software developed for the
    NetBSD Project.  See http://www.netbsd.org/ for
    information about NetBSD.

    This product includes software developed by Jonathan Stone for
    the NetBSD Project.

    This product includes software developed for the NetBSD Project
    by Matthias Drochner.

    This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
    Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.

    This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.
    [for the NetBSD Project.]

    This product includes software developed by Adam Glass.

    This product includes software developed by the PocketBSD project
    and its contributors.

    This product includes software developed by Peter Galbavy.

    Carnegie Mellon University   (multiple header files,
    no specific advertisement text required)

    This product includes software developed by Charles M. Hannum.

    This product includes software developed under OpenBSD by Per Fogelström.

    This product includes software developed at Ludd, University of
    Luleå, Sweden and its contributors.

    This product includes software developed by Hellmuth Michaelis
    and Joerg Wunsch

    The font(s) in devices/fonts are Copyright (c) 1992, 1993, 1994
    by Hellmuth Michaelis and Joerg Wunsch.  ("This product includes software
    developed by Hellmuth Michaelis and Joerg Wunsch", well, the font
    is maybe not software, but still...)

    impactsr-bsd.h is Copyright (C) 2004 by Stanislaw Skowronek.

    This product includes software developed for the NetBSD Project by
    Wasabi Systems, Inc.  [by Simon Burge]


See individual files for license details, if you plan to redistribute
mips64emul or reuse code.

And thanks to everyone who has provided me with feedback, ideas, patches,
or encouraged me to work on specific issues.

Don't hesitate to send feedback to me. My email address is at the top of
this file.

